This minipackage collects a bunch of scripts I use to ease the use of
alsaequal [1], in particular when used together with mpd [2].  At the
moment, the scripts are all primitive and very dependent on my
particular system, namely a Debian [3] based workstation without any
"integrated desktop environment".  Of course I intend to make them less
primitive and more portable :-) , but nonetheless I will resist any
effort to make them dependent on said "integrated environments", _even
indirectly_ through shared libraries and such.

The main script here is eq, which is basically a wrapper around
alsamixer run on the software equalizer provided by alsaequal.  It
executes alsamixer repeatedly in a loop until alsamixer exits with
status 0.  This is because the ael script (discussed below) sends
alsamixer a signal after loading a saved set of equalizer values.  This
is only needed because alsamixer seems to lack any ability to refresh
its display when the control values change outside of its own purview.

The other parts are aes and ael, which are just shell functions using
the worker aectl script.  They are used as follows: after esablishing a
working set of equalizer values for a particular occassion or a type of
music, you run aes to save and label them with a descriptive name.  For
instance, you're listening to a famous female vocalist [4] and decide to
tweak the settings to promote her voice at the expense of the bass
section, then you can run

 aes femvox

to save these settings for similar music in the future.  When that happy
moment arrives you can run

 ael femvox

to restore these same settings.

Because alsaequal maintains the equalizer values per-user, all of eq,
aes and ael must be run as the same user for this to work.  In
particular, if it is mpd driving the output through alsaequal, all of
the scripts must be run as the same user mpd runs as.  On Debian, there
is a separate user "mpd" for this, but of course this totally depends on
the distribution.

Future ideas:

It should be almost trivial to write a simple GUI menu that provides all
the saved saved settings to select from by clicking.  Possibly
python-gtk plus maybe glade and it shouldn't be more than 20 lines of
code.

The more ambitious idea is to write an mpd client to track what is being
played, based perhaps on mpdscribble [5], and load equalizer settings
according to the music metadata.

Ian Zimmerman <itz@buug.org>
gpg public key: 1024D/C6FF61AD 
fingerprint: 66DC D68F 5C1B 4D71 2EE5  BD03 8A00 786C C6FF 61AD
Ham is for reading, not for eating.

[1] http://www.thedigitalmachine.net/alsaequal.html

[2] http://mpd.wikia.com/

[3] http://www.debian.org

[4] https://secure.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/wiki/Sandy_Denny

[5] http://mpd.wikia.com/wiki/Client:Mpdscribble

2011-01-30 pyael implements Future Idea #1.  I suspect it might turn
into a full graphical equalizer at some point, which would make most of
the duct tape in this package obsolete.
